Our guys will come back.
So this lecture we're going to talk about is specifically where do you find freelancers that you can
integrate into your content production team.
Are even hiring freelancers for very long time.
You never see any of my profiles online you can see how many people I've hired.
I think the first person I ever hired was back in high school believe it or not and I paid them to write
a paper and I believe were in Eastern Europe.
It kind of worked out.
But ever since then I've been kind of addicted to figuring out what the best platforms were on line
for finding people and how to get the most out of them.
So we're going to talk about is just a broad sweep of what's available to you.
All right so let's say you wanted to hire a writer well online you have some limited options.
Now number one is up work and this is something I'm going to say for pretty much every type of freelancer.
It's the largest freelancer marketplace pretty much in the world.
It used to be called oDesk and another committee called Elance and then they merged together to create
this behemoth that is up work.
Upper is pretty useful for finding writers although it's probably not their most native platform.
You do find a lot of them on there but they tend to be more like article writers or copy writers.
And the reason why is because of work you pay per hour or you pay say like a fixed fee for a large project
like talked about before with writers sometimes they write in very strange ways.
So it's very hard to set up an upward project that says I'll pay you per word or pay you per caption
but for the most part they are on there and I don't know.
It's just really up to you to figure it out.
Another platform that's pretty useful for writers is people per hour.
Now the reason why I'm bring this up is that they're basically the same thing as up work.
But the difference with them is that they have these things called our lease.
Now if you ever use fiver or dot.com this will probably ring a bell with you.
But they have hourly.
And so there are a lot of writers on there that will do generic tasks for writing and they'll do it
within That's usually like half a day or something like that.
They're usually very cheap rates.
So what you can do is you go to people per hour and then search for our least section and then look
for the writers there.
And then you can actually see whether or not any of those people offering our Aurelia's could theoretically
fit what you're looking for.
Now the last one I use for writers is a Web site called pro blogger dot net.
And the only reason I did this was because before I was hiring the long form writers and it worked out
pretty well.
But this one is more just like a traditional job board.
There are a lot of writers who are on it though and it can be tricky to get right the first time you
use it.
It's a pretty unstructured website so it's not like up work or people will bid and then you select them
and then they pay through up work or people are people are on the same exact way.
I'm a blogger.
It is just a job board.
So you have to give them step by step instructions for how to get in contact with you and how to figure
out everything else after that.
But it is something worth trying although it is a little expensive at something like $70.
Every time you post a job that now if you wanted to hire video editors I'm not going to shock you when
I say the first place I usually look is up work.
The reason why is just there's a lot of video editors on there.
There's a good range of people there.
Now the second place I'd say is video Pixi and that's a online marketplace that specific to video editors
and you can get all sorts of different people who could help you in the video production process video
Pixi tends to be a little more expensive.
So if you're OK with going up market a little bit then you can find some people there.
There is no real support in their actual app itself for working with these people so just kind of keep
that in mind.
Now if you wanted to hire photographers kind of just depends because you're going to have to hire them
locally.
Most likely because they're probably going to take photos of some visual whatever that you actually
own or they want to go in a photo shoot with you or something like that.
If you're in the US I typically like to use thumbtack that seems to work decently well.
You can always go for Craigslist even though it seems a little sketchy but there are a lot of photographers
on it.
Outside the U.S..
Can you give me six specific advice because it just depends where you are.
Typically just going to Google and searching higher photographer and then put your area.
That's probably the best way to do it especially in Europe for instance because every country has a
different site for it.
Now if you wanted to hire virtual assistance Welden your options are quite wide.
Now the first place I usually go for virtual assistants is actually a place called freelancer dot com.
They're the biggest competitor to up work freelancer dot com is a great place to get really really cheap
people who work really fast.
That's kind of what they're best at.
When you post a job posting on freelancer you can get 15 bids in 15 minutes.
It's kind of absurd.
So it's a great place.
If you are really trying to work with a budget because you'll get tons and tons of people from all over
the world.
I've been working on one virtual assistant who actually has become kind of a project manager plus video
editor plus basically everything.
And that's where we actually met was freelancer so you can find people there and then kind of work with
them over time and then see if they fit.
What part of your process.
The second suggestion is again up work.
There are a lot of people there specifically now with a virtual assistant you're just going to have
to be aware of the price sensitivity that's going to be involved with this an up or up.
There are some really cheap ones and there are also some pretty expensive ones so it just depends how
much hand-holding you want to give them.
Now if you want to hire social media managers I generally just suggest just slapping yourself because
that's just not a good idea.
These people just take your money and they don't really help you in any way past that.
You have things like consultants and people that can help you with various random things and that's
just that's a different world and that's really going to be for one off things if you're really stuck
with something.
All right so those are my suggestions for trying these things out.
Next lecture we can kind of go over the sites that I use to find the team that I'm currently working
with.
All right see you in.